# Stats

https://statshouse.mvk.com/view?id=144161288

# Disk

## host_io_time - Total disk I/O time

The amount of time, spent waiting for write I/O operations to be completed by the storage device

## host_io_size - Total disk I/O size

Number of bytes written to, read from, or discarded (trimmed) by the block device

# Memory

## host_mem_info = Memory Utilization

## host_mem_writeback - Writeback memory

The Writeback represents the amount of dirty data actively being written back to disk

Dirty metric indicates the total amount of memory occupied by dirty pages.

## host_oom_kill - OOM Kill

The number of OOM based on /proc/vmstat

## host_oom_kill_detailed - OOM Kill dmesg

The number of OOM based on klog messages


# Network

## host_net_bandwidth sum - Network bandwidth size

Counts of bytes transmitted and received by each network interface on the system (exclude `lo`)

## host_net_dev_bandwidth sum - Network device bandwidth size

Counts of bytes transmitted and received by each network interface on the system (exclude `lo`)

## host_net_bandwidth count - Network bandwidth packets

Counts of packets transmitted and received by each network interface on the system (exclude `lo`)

## host_net_dev_bandwidth count - Network device bandwidth packets

Counts of packets transmitted and received by each network interface on the system (exclude `lo`)

# Processes

## host_system_process_created - Process created 

The number of processes and threads created

## host_system_process_status - Process status

Running - the number of processes that are currently running on CPUs or ready to run
Blocked - the number of processes that are currently in a blocked or waiting state (waiting for I/O operations to complete)

## host_system_uptime - Uptime

The amount of time the system has been running

## host_context_switch - Context Switches

Context switches indicate the number of times the CPU switches between different tasks. They reflect how often processes or threads are scheduled to run on the CPU.

## host_irq - 

The metric provides count of hardware interrupts serviced by the system.
Hardware interrupts are fundamental signals generated by peripheral devices, such as network interfaces, storage controllers, and input/output devices, to request immediate attention from the CPU.

## host_softirq

The softirq metric provides a detailed count of software-generated interrupts  handled by the system

HI: High priority tasklets, typically used for time-sensitive operations such as network packet processing.
TASKLET: Handles regular tasklets.

TIMER: Timer softirqs, responsible for timer-related tasks such as scheduling deferred work and handling periodic system timers.
HRTIMER: Used for high-resolution timers.

NET_RX: Network receive softirqs, involved in processing incoming network packets.
NET_TX: Network transmit softirqs, responsible for transmitting outgoing network packets.

BLOCK: Block device softirqs, used for disk I/O operations and handling storage-related tasks. ???
IRQ_POLL: Used for handling polling-based interrupt requests. ???
RCU -  Is associated with the kernel's implementation of Read-Copy Update (RCU)
SCHED: Kernel's scheduler activities


